words like unify and divide are really
very loaded in the English language
maybe they're loaded in every language
maybe in some languages they have
different connotations certainly in
Chinese politically to talk about
factions factionalism division as
opposed to unification as opposed to
maintaining a mass line and that's a
unique phrase in Chinese very often we
don't think rationally about why it is
in politics that we might break up into
smaller groups and we don't think
rationally or strategically or an
attached way but why it is we might have
centralized hierarchical organization or
why we might unify into larger and
larger entities right very often these
things are pursued as if their ideals
their pursuit idealistically and there
shouldn't be anything idealistic about
it the answer for why we should operate
in a small group as opposed to a large
group in politics is fundamentally the
same as how we would ask an answer those
questions in a workplace setting or in a
classroom setting if we're engaged in an
educational exercise right paradoxically
we form ourselves into large groups for
the same reason why we divide ourselves
into small groups to get more done I'm
currently an educator I'm currently
teaching at university level in China 20
and 21 year old students why do I divide
them into smaller groups into smaller
classes to get more done on the other
hand for some activities why unify into
a larger class or even a huge theater of
several hundred students at once to get
more done for some types of tasks and
again many of you have experienced this
in the workplace different types of
workplaces different types of tasks
there are some tasks where you want to
be in small groups there's some tasks
where maybe you want people to work
alone
and there are some tasks where people
need to get involved in large
centralized organizations be they
hierarchical or otherwise okay
so we have to think about these things
we have to think about these things
tactically and strategically with
detachment or a pragmatic perspective
and not think that unification isn't in
itself so I say this in preface to a
video dealing primarily with the latest
progress in the mutiny over at direct
action everywhere direct action
everywhere they abbreviate their own
name as DX e this is the way they choose
to previa their name fine direct action
everywhere is a medium-sized vegan
activist organization with pretensions
of being both nationwide United States
and indeed global international and most
of their members now are based in
Berkeley California in the past they
were more based in Chicago within the
United States one of the really
interesting aspects of their current
mutiny of people rising up against the
leadership is that in many ways it's the
idealism of direct action everywhere 1.0
rebelling against direct action
everywhere 2.0 what do I mean by this
the original iteration of DXE of their
mode of operation of what they were
trying to do and how they were going to
do it they refused to admit that they
had any hierarchy at all in the early
days they said they were a completely
horizontal network of activists and then
there were some details about different
chapters coordinating with other
chapters and over time what emerged and
they used the word emerged quite a lot
themselves they talked about an emergent
authority structure was that no they
weren't egalitarian at all they weren't
horizontal at all they were a strictly
vertical hierarchical organization led
by one man and his girlfriend
Wayne Siong and Priya they were the
self-appointed dictators for life and
really all pretense of having elections
and caucuses some kind of transparent
democratic process was revealed to be a
joke now one of the ways they did this
was that on top of the older structure
of authority they created a news
of authority which they referred to as
DXE global I was there term rather than
the EXCI top layer of the layer cake and
Priya and Wayne this you know couple who
you know basically running control the
organization then started setting up
various pretexts to justify their
command and control the organization and
a hierarchy of chapters and their
commanders and what-have-you
now some people especially people in a
straight political science background
might just regard this as progress
measures ago this is positive to say
okay they had an early idealistic phase
in which they were basically in denial
about inequality in the organization
then the organization grew and they got
a budget and somebody had to control
that money they decide who does and does
not get paid because yes they are paying
people they are putting money in
people's pockets to pay for their cost
of living people are getting salaries
people are getting money out of this
which again I'm not hating and principal
just pointing out this is one of the
reasons why democracy and transparency
and how you define the organization how
horizontal is it some people are getting
paid some are not some people are
getting featured on their websites and
on their YouTube channel and so on and
some are not you know these are the
things people within the organization
fight about the people have talked
within DXE the issue of just recognition
and promotion within the organization
like somebody works really hard on some
particular protest or project and then
they feel they're not being recognized
by the leadership whereas someone else
is there's a lot of tension around that
sort of thing this is a social media era
and they began with DXE 1.0 pretending
that dxc was completely open at and
horizontal kind of anyone could define
what the organization was that anyone
could just start up their own chapter
and start up their own activism but in
reality in practice some people are more
DXE than others some people are making
those decisions even if it is literally
the decision of who gets their link
posted on Facebook who gets their link
gets their video posted on YouTube who
gets some kind of wreck
regulation from the higher levels the
organization and who does not a lot of
those struggles are really keenly felt
by people now why I mean some of you
might just be laughing and saying hey
this is petty well it's a lot less petty
when one there's time involved two
there's money involved and three there
were criminal charges involved there are
legal fees involved people are getting
lawyers people getting put in prison
even if just overnight people are
engaging in forms of activism to have
these kinds of consequences in their
life in terms of time effort money and
you're in an organization where some
people are getting paid other people are
getting nothing and those people who are
getting nothing may be dealing with
lawyers fees and legal charges
consequence of the same activism the
other people were engaged
so those inequalities can be very keenly
felt beyond this mere social media a
question of whose video is on the
official YouTube channel whose is not
right and there have been other problems
I'm not really gonna get into in this
video there have been problems of
misconduct put it that way and then how
does this hierarchical organization deal
with misconduct is it really democratic
or transparent is it really responsible
is it really able to hold their own
people to account and in the last video
I did on protection everywhere we talked
about the extent to which reportedly I
you know ostensibly and I think I
believe actually their own process of
Elections their own process of selecting
leaders has really been co-opted and
corrupted and controlled by the two
people on top so that they can remain on
top forever so here what does it all
come down to there was a new video put
on Facebook and on Facebook only by
Wayne and Priya the self-appointed
dictators for life that video is really
very dishonest it suggests that their
problem is just with one person who's in
charge of one Facebook group you know
somehow connected to the recognition
everywhere I can give you a link below
this video to a web page from liberation
global and these people they they openly
describe themselves as a faction
of direct action everywhere you know
they get an A+ for honesty direct action
everywhere has now split into factions
that's the honest direct way to say it
and this faction really is representing
the ideals of 1.0 saying no they want to
go back to the situation I'm quoting the
website directly or they say quote a
grassroots network doesn't need top-down
leadership
it needs collective control over its
identity and its means of communication
so they want to go back to a situation
where there are no dictators and maybe
there are no elections where this is a
horizontal network of aspiring vegan
activists and where nobody is the star
leader or the dictator or what-have-you
they want to get rid of the top-down
form of leadership that Wayne and pre
have imposed it says I can I can quote
this directly they want a consensus
driven collectively controlled basically
internet presence that connects these
different groups of activists so that
was back in the day couple years ago
whenever you asked direct action
everywhere about their organization or
hierarchy who was in charge they used to
reply nobody is in charge direct action
everywhere is just a network uniting
groups of activists as equals
horizontally and then more recently they
slipped into the era of DXE 2.0 of
so-called emergent leadership where they
were admitting openly and even promoting
themselves as led by Wayne Siong and
Priya
and indeed Wayne's young and Priya
controlled the money ultimately there's
a bank account and some people have the
legal ability to sign a cheque drawing
in that bank account and others do not
that's the ultimate inequality right so
the about parole equal it's all
horizontal wheel corporate it got in
somewhere and it ends here the buck
stops here it ends with fundraising and
ends with money now there's another
important corrupting influence of money
on this movement which is that dxc 1.0
was really not about so-called open
rescue it really was about disruption
and they had this whole complex
philosophy to justify why
disruption which is a form of public
protests barely legal and slightly
illegal public protests disrupting the
normal lives of meat-eaters why
disruption was their method of activism
and they justified this through a very
complex set of allusions to Mahatma
Gandhi in India and the civil rights
movement in its states and the abolition
of slavery in the u.s. civil war I mean
I have videos criticizing that period of
their rhetoric I think it is
but that was their mantra that was their
modus operandi they were this horizontal
organization that just did disruption
and they had a whole complex
philosophical rationale for that well
over time the problem is people don't
really want to donate money to you for
disruption right where does the donor
support come from I think everybody in
the game figured this out pretty quickly
you get a lot of donor support you get a
lot of interest you get a lot of money
from so-called open rescue and videos
featuring open rescue ok so this means
things like them break DXE members
breaking into a chicken farm and
stealing the chickens at one point it
was a turkey farm it basically includes
cattle rustling if repeat blunt and yeah
that is criminal that is considered from
you're stealing someone's property
because legally all these animals are
the property of the farm or what have
you but it's very dramatic
it looks dramatic on video it's
something you can post to the donors
about a lot of the donors are themselves
elderly soft hearted people who just
love animals and you can imagine these
people the people who are writing checks
the people are giving donations maybe
they do not respond positively to direct
action ever we're going into a Chipotle
fast-food restaurant and just screaming
at people that Meat Is Murder which is
what they do they go into restaurants
scribbled it that does not sell the
donors oh but he put together an
emotional tear-jerking video that shows
you breaking into this farm at night you
know and rescuing this chicken and then
filming the chicken and how supposedly
happy it is now that it's living in
someone's backyard in Berkeley
California
this pulls at the heartstrings of donors
including non vegan donors including
meat-eaters who want to just give to the
cause because their animal lovers this
stuff sells and I notice both the rebel
group the new faction trying to take
over the leadership of the recognized
Network and Wayne and Priya they've both
gone over in a huge way to this this
mode of activism so-called open rescue
rescue based activism rescue and
sanctuary based a tourism which wasn't
what their movement was founded on their
movement was founded on back at 1.0 the
fundamental conviction that social
science research would guide us to more
and more effective methods of activism
and that those methods of activism could
should and would resemble the most
effective methods from the United States
civil rights movement now whether that's
intelligence are stupid stick with it
for a minute why aren't they putting
together folk bands
why aren't they putting together groups
of gospel singers and going from church
to church if you want to talk about
effective methods of galvanizing public
support in the civil rights movement
anybody who knows anything knows that
music was a huge part of it and
specifically gospel singers and folk
singers going from church to church from
town to town
vegans the United States have never done
anything like that so my point here is
there's not some simple leap of
inference from saying learn the lessons
of history learn the lessons from social
sciences learn the lessons from the
civil rights movement jumping from that
to disruption ie standing in a
restaurant and screaming at people that
Meat Is Murder it's not food it's
violence these other slogans there's no
simple way to jump from that premise of
DXE 1.0 to open rescue to cattle
rustling like okay so you can rob cattle
from a farm and then take them and put
them in your backyard you're now guilty
of a crime cows probably worth a lot of
money it's probably a pretty serious
level of theft you can go to jail for
but you make this tear-jerking video and
then people donate money to you how is
that justified by social science
research how is that justified by the
history of the civil rights drone the
United States
and of course there were deeper
questions here of why would civil rights
struggle you know how how useful is it
compared to any other historical example
for being still there are a lot of
questions and I've had a lot of videos
in this channel in the past already
discussing those questions but this new
video from Wayne and Priya
it is really being dishonest with us in
stating that the problem is just a
rebellion from one person controlling
one Facebook group if you click on the
link below this video they have a
running list of all the Facebook groups
that are now led by the rebel faction I
could call them the egalitarian faction
the faction that doesn't want hierarchy
that doesn't want the dictatorship of
Wayne and Priya and it's a long list of
direct action everywhere websites that
they've taken over so sorry you might as
well click on it yourself and see but
includes their medium page their Twitter
page DXE everywhere that is the Twitter
for divided attention everywhere their
Instagram page a whole bunch of other
official direct action everywhere pages
like direct action every word dot or the
website the rebels the the rebel faction
wanting equality they have taken away a
large part of direct action everywhere
web presence from Wayne and Priya from
the nail resented dictators and as I say
I said in earlier video I've read quite
a bit of the details about what happened
with the last elections and how they've
really they've really shut down and cut
off most of the sources of free speech
and I don't know debate within direct
action everywhere which really mattered
to people who were committed that
organization committed that cause
however when I click on the rebel medium
page mediums a website for articles I
notice they're still talking as if they
control the bank account that Wayne
controls and I talked to someone inside
direct action everywhere and I said look
it seems to me like these guys are of
two minds that they're a bit you know
they haven't admitted to themselves the
situation is yeah you guys have taken
over a bunch of websites but you haven't
taken over that bank account you guys
are gonna have to start your own bank
account and I got a message back saying
yes that's true
the reality is that nail the egalitarian
DXE they are more and more interested in
doing open rescue cattle-rustling
chicken-stealing etc precisely because
they're having to get started with
collecting their own donations for their
own bank account so that's what it all
comes down to folks the idea of a
horizontal Network open to all doesn't
work for a couple of reasons one is that
there's a brand name here that
ultimately some people have executive
control over what if a group of
right-wingers set up their own chapter
within DXE let's not they don't even
have to be neo-nazis enough extremist
let's just say you have people who are
hardline conservative libertarians
members of the Republican Party and they
also care about ecology and animal
rights and veganism and they set up a
chapter I guarantee you the leadership
in direct action everywhere whether it's
1.0 or 2.0 or 3.0 they're gonna find
some excuse to close ranks against these
people and say no no no you don't get to
use our name you can't call yourself the
right to action everywhere cuz all the
members the founding members rotated for
their extremely left-wing and they're
extremely into you know intersectional
feminism intersectional anti racism
race politics gender politics in general
they'll never walk with those guys what
if you get a group of people and they're
a bit conservative they're the kind of
guys who own rifles and they start
getting into veganism animal rights and
you know they used to be involved in
duck hunting they're into conservation
and forest habitat they're the kind of
people who own four-wheel off-road
vehicles and rifles and go out there
just let's just say they're moderately
conservative guys like that and they set
up their own chapter they set up DX EE
Tennessee from the backwoods of
Tennessee just the brand identity alone
is
already exclusive and exclusionary and
there are going to be power struggles
hierarchical or horizontal for who is in
and who is out and as I've already
mentioned their power struggles over who
gets on the front page of Facebook and
who doesn't who gets on the YouTube page
who doesn't there are power struggles
for recognition of that kind within it
and then beyond that there are going to
be power struggles over money over
prison sentences over legal consequences
and who deals with them there are going
to be power struggles over who gets to
make those decisions so long as you
pretend that nobody's in charge and if
you admit that there's a hierarchy then
there are also going to power struggles
over who is in charge okay
so to wrap this up I want to say I've
got a very intelligent set of messages
from a patreon supporter if you guys
want to talk to me pay $1 to join
patreon $1.00 is nothing better the
cause cup of coffee on my patreon a guy
named Richard sent me some messages and
I may make more videos actually
responding to this this statement from
Richard because it is really addressing
me um I got this statement from Richard
saying that at this stage vegans should
not be forming more and more fragmentary
and fractious groups they should not be
dividing themselves into factions or
into small unique organizations tackling
specific issues that instead vegans
should be uniting with large
organizations like peda People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals that have
millions of dollars in infrastructure
and centralized organization now you
know when he has reasons for this and
they're intelligent reasons they just
have to be reasons that I disagree with
in practice so we started this dialogue
but for this video I'm again I may talk
about that more I may make another video
within 24 hours about it because it's a
really interesting topic it's a teep
talking topic we cannot look at unity as
an ideal or as an end in itself and we
cannot look at independence you know or
factional ization splitting into small
independent groups as an itself these
are not ideals the fundamental reason
for working with larger groups is to get
things done
paradoxically the reason for dividing
into smaller groups is exactly the same
to get things done